# Don't use 403s or 404s for rate limiting
- **發佈日期**: 2023-02-01
- **作者**: Google Search Central
- **來源 URL**: https://developers.google.com/search/blog/2023/02/dont-404-my-yum
- **來源類型**: article
- **來源集合**: google-search-central
---
Friday, February 17, 2023

Over the last few months we noticed an uptick in website owners and some content delivery networks
(CDNs) attempting to use `404` and other `4xx` client errors (but not
`429`) to attempt to reduce Googlebot's crawl rate.

The short version of this blog post is: please don't do that; we have documentation about
[how to reduce Googlebot's crawl rate](/search/docs/crawling-indexing/reduce-crawl-rate).
Read that instead and learn how to effectively manage Googlebot's crawl rate.

## Back to basics: `4xx` errors are for client errors

The `4xx` errors servers return to clients are a signal from the server that the
client's request was wrong in some sense. Most of the errors in this category are pretty benign:
"not found" errors, "forbidden", "I'm a teapot" (yes, that's a thing). They don't suggest anything
wrong going on with the server itself.

The one exception is `429`, which stands for "too many requests". This error is a clear
signal to any well-behaved robot, including our beloved Googlebot, that it needs to slow down
because it's overloading the server.

## Why `4xx` errors are bad for rate limiting Googlebot (except `429`)

Client errors are just that: client errors. They generally don't suggest an error with the server:
not that it's overloaded, not that it's encountered a critical error and is unable to respond
to the request. They simply mean that the client's request was bad in some way. There's no
sensible way to equate for example a `404` error to the server being overloaded.
Imagine if that was the case: you get an influx of `404` errors from your friend accidentally
linking to the wrong pages on your site, and in turn Googlebot slows down with crawling. That
would be pretty bad. Same goes for `403`, `410`, `418`.

And again, the big exception is the `429` status code, which translates to "too many
requests".

## What rate limiting with `4xx` does to Googlebot

All `4xx` HTTP status codes (again, except `429`) will cause your content
to be removed from Google Search. What's worse, if you also serve your robots.txt file with a
`4xx` HTTP status code, it will be treated as if it didn't exist. If you had a rule
there that disallowed crawling your dirty laundry, now Googlebot also knows about it; not great
for either party involved.

## How to reduce Googlebot's crawl rate, the right way

We have extensive documentation about
[how to reduce Googlebot's crawl rate](/search/docs/crawling-indexing/reduce-crawl-rate)
and also about
[how Googlebot (and Search indexing) handles the different HTTP status codes](/search/docs/crawling-indexing/http-network-errors);
be sure to check them out. In short, you want to do either of these things:

* [Use Search Console to temporarily reduce crawl rate](/search/docs/crawling-indexing/reduce-crawl-rate#reduce-with-search-console).
* Return a `500`, `503`, or `429` HTTP status code to Googlebot
  when it's crawling too fast.

If you need more tips or clarifications, catch us on
[Twitter](https://twitter.com/googlesearchc) or post in
[our help forums](https://support.google.com/webmasters/community).

Posted by [Gary Illyes](https://garyillyes.com/+)
